# 2023-09-20    16:15
=====================

* 103 - Introduction.mp4
------------------------

AWS Cloud computing project:
LIFT & SHIFT APPLICATION WORKLOAD
We're going to lift our application VPROFILE and shift it on AWS cloud.
*Multi tier application stack [VPROFILE] by using Vagrant.*
Host & Run on AWS cloud for Production.
We'll use Lift & Shift strategy for this.

SCENARIO
Application Services, which are running on physical or virtual machines.
There could be various services like databases, application services like TOMCAT, LAMP stack, DNS services and various kinds of services that powers our application.
And we have all this work in our data center.
We'll need multiple teams:
- virtualization team;
- operations team;
- monitoring team;
- sysadmin team.

PROBLEM
Complex management:
- scale UP/DOWN complexity which have to be done regularly;
- maintenance cost management (UpFront CapEx & Regular OpEx);
If you have a virtualiation layer on op of it, it's possible to automate most of processes. But it's really difficult to do it and also difficult to maintain it.
Also a such automation will be very time consuming.

SOLUTION
Solution to all this problem is to have a cloud computins setup, so we don't pay for the UpFront for procuring the resource. We'll pay as we go.
We're goint to consuming infrastructure as a service (just like electricity). We can scale out or scale in to control our cost (IaaS is elastic in nature).
Also we can automate each and every step and process to avoid human errors and save our time.

AWS services:
-------------
- EC2 instances will be our VMs for TOMCAT, RabbitMQ, Memcache and MySQL servers.
- ELB (Elastic Load Balancer) will replace of our NGINX service.
- Auto Scalins Service will automatically scale out and scale in our EC2 instances.
- For storage we're going to use S3 or EFS.
- Route 53 - for private DNS service.
Along with these we will be using few more services like IAM, ACM (Amazon certificate manager), EBS etc.

OBJECTIVES
Flexible infrastucture
No upfront cost
Modernize Effectively
Automation IaC (infrastructure as Code)

FLOW OF EXECUTION
-----------------
1. Login to AWS account.
2. Create Key Pairs.
3. Create Sequrity groups for Load Balancer, Tomcat and backend services.
4. Launch instances with user data [bash scripts].
5. Update IP to name mapping in Route 53.
6. Build Application from source code.
7. Upload our artifact to S3 bucket.
8. Download artifact to Tomcat EC2 instance.
9. Setup ELB with HTTPS [Certificates from Amazon Certificate Manager].
10. Map ELB Endpoint to website name in Godaddy DNS.
11. Verify.
12. Build Autoscaling Group for Tomcat Instances.


