# 2023-09-26    11:24
=====================

* 110 - Introduction.mp4
------------------------
VPROFILE refactoring with AWS
Multi tier web application stack
In this project we'll rearchitecture or refactor our VPROFILE for AWS cloud services.
This architecture is aimed to boost agility or improve business continuity. So we can easily add new features, scale effectively and have good performance for our application workload.

PROBLEM - significant operational overhead for teams that support our infrastrusture and EC2 insances. Your Ops, Sys and Monitoring teams are struggling for the uptime of EC2 instances and regular scaling requirement.
So you have significant upfront capital expenditure and regular operational expenditure, if you're using your own local datacenter and the processes have to be manual, which very difficult to automate if you have simple virtualization.
All these processes will be time consuming and very expensive.

SOLUTION - As a solution we can use our cloud infrastructure mostly as PaaS or even SaaS.
So if we're talking about AWS, we will not be going with regular instances, but ill be using some cloud managed services form AWS.
Cloud means we can code our infrastructure so we can have infrastructure as a code (IaC).
And PaaS or SaaS are very easy to manage. They're flexible and elastis in nature.
Refactoring our aplication really gives us easy infrastructure to manage, very good performance, very convenient to scale. And you'll not need huge teams to manage all this.
1. *So instead* of using regular EC2 instances to install our services, we'll be using *Beanstalk* service to create EC2 instances and host our application. *Beanstalk* service already have built-in Load Balancer, Auto Scaling and manages S3 buckets for storing the artifacts.
With *Beanstalk* we can use even our own extra bucket.
2. For database we'll use RDS instances. So you can get a database platform and the database is up and running in no time. Its scaling will be very easy and regular backups will be taken automatically.
3. We're going to use *Elastic Cache Service* instead of MemcacheD and *ActiveMQ* instead f RebbitMQ.
4. *Route 53* for DNS.
5. *Cloudfront* for content delivery network.

OBJECTIVE - we need:
- a very flexible infrastructure;
- pay as we go (no upfront cost);
- infrastructure as a code;
- platform as a service;
- and software as service to ease of managing our infrastructure to have low operational overhead.


FLOW OF EXECUTION
- Login to WAS account;
- Create key pair for beanstalk instance login;
- Create sequrity group (SG) for Elastic Cashe service, RDS ans ActiveMQ;
- Create instances:
    + RDS;
    + Amazon Elastic Cache;
    + Amazon ActiveMQ;
- Create Elastic Beanstalk Environment;
- Update SG of backend to allow traffic from Beanstalk SG;
- Update SG of backend to allow internal traffic;
- Launch EC2 instance for DB;
- login MySQL instance and RDS DB initialize;
- Change healthcheck on beanstalk to '/login'. So when we deploy our artifact, it should do a health check;
- Add HTTPS port 443 Listener to ELB;
- Build artifact with Backend information. So by now we should have endpoints of RDS, ActiveMQ and Elastic Cache. We'll fill this information in our properties file and we'll build the artifact;
- Deploy tha ertifact to Beanstalk environment;
- Create CDN (content delivery network) with ssl certificate for CloudFront service;
- Update our Load Balancer and Entry in GoDaddy DNS Zones;
- Test the URL.



